# 1. Install the Install the pg_clean tool. tool:

Connect any primary CN.

```
CREATE EXTENSION pg_unlock;
```

# 2. use cases for constructing distributed deadlock 

session1—cn1:

```
postgres=# begin; select * from a; 
```

session2—cn2:

```
postgres=# begin; select * from b; 
```

session1—cn1:

```
postgres=# drop table b;
```

session2—cn2:

```
postgres=# drop table a;
```

# 3. find dependencies between inter-transactions (no deadlock detection)

session3—cn1:

```
postgres=# select * from pg_unlock_check_dependency();
 dependencyid |      dependency       |    nodename     |              query              
--------------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------------------------------
            0 | 0:1998:5 --> 1:1995:1 | cn001 --> cn002 | drop table b; --> drop table a;
            1 | 1:1995:1 --> 0:1998:5 | cn002 --> cn001 | drop table a; --> drop table b;
(2 rows)
```

The waiting relationship of the inter-transaction in the above use case. The dependencyid represents the number of records and the dependency shows the waiting relationship of the inter-transactions, where each transaction is represented by its global transactionid." 0:1998:5 --> 1:1995:1" means that transaction "1998:5" with record 0 is waiting for transaction "1995:1" with record 1.

# 4. find deadlocks in the cluster (without unlocking them)

```
postgres=# select * from pg_unlock_check_deadlock();
 deadlockid |                   deadlocks                   | nodename |     query     
------------+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------------
          0 | 0:1998:5       (100.105.50.198 :30004       )+| cn001   +| drop table b;+
            | 1:1995:1       (100.105.50.198 :30005       ) | cn002    | drop table a;
(1 row)
```

All deadlocks present in the above use case. The deadlockid indicates the number of deadlock records, the deadlocks show all the transactions contained in each deadlock (which are connected by a "+" sign), and the ip and port of the originating node of each transaction are printed.

# # 5. detecting deadlocks and unlocking them

```
postgres=# select * from pg_unlock_execute();
 executetime | txnindex |                  rollbacktxnifo                  | nodename | cancel_query  
-------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------+----------+---------------
           0 |        0 | 0:1998:5       (100.105.50.198 :30004          ) | cn001    | drop table b;
(1 row)
```

The above uses the transactions ended by unlocking the deadlock. The executetime indicates the number of times the transaction was terminated, because if the cluster unlocked the deadlock after the first termination, a new deadlock may have formed or the number of deadlocks was greater than 50 during the first detection, and only part of the deadlock was unlocked; txnindex indicates the number of records of the terminated transaction; rollbacktxninfo indicates the information of the terminated transaction, again this information includes the global transactionid, ip and port of the transaction. This information also includes the global transactionid, ip and port of the transaction.

# 6. Analysis Process

(1) In the above use case, transaction "1998:5" is initiated in CN1 and transaction "1995:1" is initiated in CN2.
(2) First, the "select" statement is executed in both sessions, and the transaction "1998:5" acquires the ACCESS SHARE lock of table a, and the transaction "1995:1 " obtains the ACCESS SHARE lock of table b.
(3) Then, the "drop table" statement is executed in each of the two sessions, and transaction "1998:5" applies for the ACCESS EXCLUSIVE lock of table b, which is the same as the ACCESS SHARE lock held by "1995:1". 1995:1" holds the ACCESS SHARE lock for table b, so "1998:5 --> 1995:1". Similarly, there is "1995:1 --> 1998:5".
4) This is where the deadlock between the two transactions is formed. From the above, it can be seen that the program ends the transaction "1998:5" after detecting the deadlock.